### Data modelling and ETL using AWS Redshift
This repo. contains the code to implement a ETL pipeline which extracts data from AWS S3, transforms them to a Star Schema analytic database and load them into the AWS Redshift. It simulates a fictious scenario setout in the UDacity Data Engineering with AWS Nanodegree. 

### Project Background: Sparkify S3 to Redshift ETL
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app. In this project, an ETL pipeline is built which extracts Sparkify data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to.

### Project Data
#### Song Dataset
The first dataset of this project is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID in AWS S3 `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`

#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month in AWS S3 `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`. 

### Implementations
All the implementations can be found in the [folder](https://github.com/wongp1984/s3redshiftetl/tree/main/ProjectImplementations)
